#### Design Diagram Descriptions

###### Level 0 ([Design-Diagram-D0](Design-Diagram-D0.png))
The level 0 diagram gives a high level view of the application and how it will operate. In its essence, the user will be able to open the application and enter some preferences that they have regarding activities. The application will then process these preferences, and then output some activity ideas to the user. The user can then view activities, and then close the application. 

###### Level 1 ([Design-Diagram-D1](Design-Diagram-D1.png))
The level 1 diagram builds on the level 0 diagram, adding some details about business logic and application operation. When the user opens the application, if they have previously set preferences, the application will automatically output activity ideas. This shows that the preferences input by the user previously were saved into a database, and fetched when they opened the application. The user will, of course, be able to edit preferences already set. The application outputs activity ideas, and when it does this, it rates each application based on relevance to the set preferences. The activities can then be output in order based on relevance. Once the user has viewed activities, they can close the application. 

###### Level 2 ([Design-Diagram-D2](Design-Diagram-D2.png))
The level 2 diagram gives the most detail regarding business logic and application operation. When a user opens the application, if preferences have not already been set, the application will prompt the user to input activity preferences. These preferences are saved to the database. Once the user has set preferences, those preferences are fetched. The user can then edit those preferences at any point in time. The preferences are then fed into an algorithm, and the algorithm outputs activity ideas based on those preferences. Other factors are taken into account here, such as previous user ratings. The user will be able to rate activities that were output previously. For example, if the user sees an activity that they do not enjoy, they can mark that activity as "I do not want to see these types of results again", and in the future, the application will not output those types of activities, even with the same inputs. Once the application outputs activities, the user can rate those activities, as described earlier. The user's ratings will be saved into the database for future reference. The user can then continue to edit preferences and make new searches for activities, until they close the application.