#### Individual Capstone Assessment
**Caleb Cargill**
  
  
###### Contact Information
* cargilch@mail.uc.edu

###### What is the senior design project all about from my perspective?
  
  The senior design project is an opportunity to demonstrate what I have learned over the past four years of college, both during academic semesters and co-op semesters. I have been looking forward to this project because I want to use the technical, professional, and personal skills that I have acquired with my college experiences. I also view it as a learning experience, where I get to learn how to manage a project throughout its entire lifespan – from the idea’s conception to its execution and finally to its release. Working in a team of four, I see an opportunity for both learning and teaching. Each of us will bring different skills and experiences, and we will each teach and learn from one another. I also view the capstone project as an opportunity to prepare for full-time employment after graduation, as I will learn and demonstrate skills such as project management, time management, team collaboration, and leadership. 

###### How will my college experiences guide the development of the project?
  
  The curriculum I have taken in previous years have prepared me in various ways to work on a full-scale project, which I have been able to utilize in co-op terms, and now get to use in the senior design project.  Two specific classes come to mind when I think of what will be of value in guiding me with the development of this project: CS 2028C, Data Structures and CS 5127, Requirements Engineering. Data Structures was the class that I have taken that impacted me the most. I learned to look at code in a completely different way. I learned how to write clean, efficient code. I also learned how to take new perspectives when approaching a problem. During development of the senior design project, I will be able to take creative, thoughtful approaches to problems that arise. I also will be able to keep our code organized and will be able to maximize efficiency. Requirements Engineering taught me how to plan before working more carefully on a project. Before, I would jump into execution of a program, and would quickly feel overwhelmed by the tasks in front of me. In Requirements Engineering, I learned how to plan out tasks and user stories before writing any code. Doing this consistently provides structure to projects that I work on and provides momentum throughout the lifespan of the project. I intend on applying these learned skills when working on the senior design project, and I believe they will lead to overall success. 
  
  My experiences while on co-op at KLH Engineers will also be helpful when approaching the senior design project. During my time at KLH, I gained a wide variety of experience with various technologies and programming practices. At KLH, I acted as a full-stack developer, working on everything from the database and the web service to the user interfaces being used by the engineers in production work. I gained experience with continuous integration and continuous deployment, working in scrum teams, and managing projects and tasks. These technical skills will apply directly to any project that I could work on in the future, including the senior design project. I also learned professional and personal skills at KLH, which will make me a better teammate to work with and allow me to take on leadership in our group. I regularly led meetings in our department at KLH, so I feel comfortable leading other groups as well, when the occasion arises. I also learned important skills such as time management and project management at KLH, and I will be able to directly apply those skills to the senior design project. Finally, from my time at KLH, I became friends with my co-workers, who are all very experienced programmers. Should the need arise, I feel that I could go to any of them for advice or guidance at any point during this project. 

###### What is my motivation for the project?
  
  I am excited to work on this project because I anticipate learning many more skills as I work on it. I think I will learn from my teammates, who have had different experiences than me. I will also learn more about setting up and designing a project from the beginning, which I have never done. I am excited to work on a project during its entire lifetime. I anticipate gaining helpful insight when it comes to project management. In the past, I have been involved in project management in various aspects. However, when it comes to the senior design project, I – along with my team members – are one hundred percent responsible for managing the project. I will gain a greater appreciation of the product owner role, as well as the scrum master role. 

###### How will I approach the project and how will I measure success?
  
  When it comes to designing a solution, I think that it is important to look further at the problem being solved. I believe two questions should be answered when looking at the problem: “Why is the problem a problem?” and “What other solutions have been made to address the problem?” From there, I have a motive – which comes from the “Why” question. The second question will guide my approach and will cause me to think about how my solution would be different or better if other solutions already exist. I expect that my team will develop a fully working application by the end of this project. However, that is not necessarily how I will measure success. Before we begin working, we will sit down and plan out as much as we can. Then, throughout the year, we will likely have to frequently revisit and replan. The way I will evaluate whether I have done a good job or not will be based on how well the project is managed throughout the year. I will likely judge this based on how well we manage planning, teamwork, and time. If we do not plan well, we will quickly feel overwhelmed and fail to reach the end goal. If we do not work as a team, then we will not learn from one another and therefore will not grow as much as we can. And finally, if we do not manage our time, we may end up with a half-finished product, or even worse, a rushed project. I hope that through careful planning and collaboration, we can reach success.

